### 务虚
<blockquote>
  <p>
This situation is not as new as it seems. Consider, for instance, “the debate between physicists  and lyrical poets” which took place in the Soviet Union in the 1960s: science develops in a sinusoidal manner.</p>
  <p>
    Every discipline eventually faces the challenge of practical application. Many discoveries are made simply out of curiosity, with no particular practical goal in mind or with the goal which is not reached in the end. Meanwhile, the discovery might acquire an unpredictable application. That is the case with Andrei Zalizniak’s 12 Ph.D. thesis Classification and Synthesis of Nominal Paradigms in the Contemporary Russian Language (1965) and his Russian Grammar Dictionary (1977), which formally described all patterns of Russian word formation (i.e. declensions and conjugations). These works made it possible to develop online search engines which are sensitive to Russian morphology: without Zalizniak’s research this would have been unattainable. Yet, at that time when Zalizniak conducted his research, it seemed to be useless, and that was one of the arguments posed against Structuralist approaches to the study of language in 1960s. 
  </p>
  
  <p>
    Of course, the same reproach can be made to theoretical physicists and mathematicians, but the society luckily hopes that the results of their research will become useful at some point. In regards to humanities, public opinion has been oscillating: in certain periods the public believed in their utility, at other times, it did not, and everyone considered humanities to be a useless field of study. 
  </p>
  
  <p>
    In the past 25 years, we have experienced a rapid development of information technologies. This is linked to the drastic increase in computer efficiency, growth of signal transmission speed, and emergence of the new ways of data encryption. Many things that people would only speculate about or things that we would not even foresee in the nearest future, suddenly became a reality. Our cultural and economic landscape drastically changed at the turn of the 21st century, in a similar way to how railroads affected city economy in the 1830s. Thus, technology and its products attract public attention and prescribe the utilitarian principle to science. 
  </p>
  
  <address>
    Igor Pilshchikov, in resposne to the question "Do you have a feeling that humanities have become less popular, especially with increasing public interest in computers and technology? "
  </address>
</blockquote>

<audio controls>
  <source src="https://sqliang99.github.io/_posts/ahaha.wav" type="audio/mpeg">
Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>
